
                  GTK NSB Client for NetStatsBaseball Server
                                 v0.9.9.6


                                 Overview  

GTK NSB Client is a program used to connect to a NetStatsBaseball (NSB) server
program.  The client and server programs working together allow users to play
individual baseball games (from a managerial point of view) and entire seasons.
(An entire season can be played in a matter of seconds if desired.)  The game
is a simulation of Major League Baseball and play is based upon the real-life
statistics of the individual players (1901 - current year).  Resulting
statistics from games and entire seasons are kept.  Seasonal records and
lifetime statistics are kept.  Users may create their own teams consisting of
real life players from various years.  (Note - lifetime statistics for
user-created teams are NOT kept.)


                               General Info

The GTK NSB Client program accepts one optional parameter ... the host to which
to try to connect.  (The default is localhost.)  The top portion of the main
window (the window which displays when the program first executes) shows
current connection status information.  If currently connected to an NSB server
then the info in the top portion of the main window will show your NSB ID, your
local identification (usually your email address), the name of the host to
which you are connected (localhost and the actual name of your machine may or
may not act as two different NSB servers except in the case of two humans
playing a game over a network when localhost and the actual name of your
machine are always treated as the same NSB server), and the number of times you
have been connected to the NSB server program running on that particular host
using this particular NSBID.  The bottom portion of the main window will show
error-type messages and info-type messages which do not normally need user
intervention as processing progresses.


                           Details of Each Menu Item

  Game->Connect to a Server

Select this menu item to connect to a host running the NSB server program.  If
the client is already connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Disconnect from Current Server to
disconnect from the current NSB server.)  After clicking on this menu item the
client will ask for the name of the host to which to connect.  The default
entry is localhost.  If the NSB server program is not running on the selected
host or there is some other sort of error, a message will show in the message
area (bottom half) of the client main window.

  Game->Disconnect from Current Server

Use this menu item to disconnect from the NSB server to which the client is
currently connected.  If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this
menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the NSB server program.)

  Game->Play->One Game Against Computer

Click on this menu item to play a game versus the computer.  If the client is
not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be de-sensitized and
unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the
NSB server program.)  Upon selecting this menu item, if there is a season
currently in progress you will be asked if you would like to play a season game
or a non-season game.  If you elect to play a non-season game (or if there is
no season in progress) you will be asked to randomly select the teams or to
manually select the teams.

If playing a season game the next game on the schedule will be selected.  After
that you will be asked whether to manage the home team or the visiting team.
After that you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the lineup is
described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

If random is selected you will then be asked whether or not to use a designated
hitter.  After that you will be asked whether to manage the home team or the
visiting team.  After that you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the
lineup is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

If you choose to manually select the teams then you will be asked whether to
manage the home team or the visiting team.  Next you will choose the teams to
use in the game.  That process is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".
After selecting the teams you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the
lineup is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

See "Miscellaneous Info" for information on watching/playing a game and making
managerial decisions.

  Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Same Computer

Click on this menu item to play a game versus another human with both humans
using the same computer.  If the client is not connected to a NSB server then
this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the NSB server program.)
Upon selecting this menu item, if there is a season currently in progress you
will be asked if you would like to play a season game or a non-season game.  If
you elect to play a non-season game (or if there is no season in progress) you
will be asked to randomly select the teams or to manually select the teams.

If playing a season game the next game on the schedule will be selected.  After
that you will be asked whether to manage the home team or the visiting team.
After that you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the lineup is
described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

If random is selected you will then be asked whether to use a designated hitter
or not.  After that you will be asked whether to manage the home team or the
visiting team.  After that you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the
lineup is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

If you choose to manually select the teams then you will be asked whether to
manage the home team or the visiting team.  Next you will choose the teams to
use in the game.  That process is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".
After that you will be asked to set the lineup.  Setting the lineup is
described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

See "Miscellaneous Info" for information on watching/playing a game and making
managerial decisions.

  Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Over Network

Click on this menu item to play a game versus another human with the two humans
using two different computers.  If the client is not connected to a NSB server
then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the NSB server program.)
To use this menu item the other human must already have his name in the Waiting
Pool (see Waiting Pool->Add Name).  The general steps for playing a network
game are described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

After clicking this menu item you will be asked to specify who you would like
to play (see Waiting Pool->Who is Waiting).  Next the challengee (the user
whose name was specified) will be asked whether or not to accept the challenge.
After accepting, if the challengee has a season in progress he/she will be
given the option whether to play a season game or a non-season game.  Otherwise
the challengee will be asked whether to randomly select the teams or to
manually select the teams.  The challengee will choose both teams.  If a season
game is selected then the next game in the schedule will be played.

If random is selected, the challengee will then be asked whether or not to use
a designated hitter.  (This selection will apply to both teams.)  After that
the challenger and the challengee will set their lineups.  Setting the lineup
is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

If manually selecting the teams, the challengee will choose both teams to use
in the game.  That process is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".  After
that the challenger and the challengee will set their lineups.  Setting the
lineup is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

In any case the challengee will always manage the home team.

See "Miscellaneous Info" for information on watching/playing a game and making
managerial decisions.

  Game->Play->Watch One Game Computer vs Computer

Click on this menu item to watch a game where both teams are managed by the
computer.  If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item
will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to
connect to a host running the NSB server program.)

Upon selecting this menu item, if there is a season currently in progress you
will be asked if you would like to play a season game or a non-season game.  If
you elect to play a non-season game (or if there is no season in progress) you
will be asked to randomly select the teams or to manually select the teams.

If playing a season game the next game on the schedule will be selected.

If random is selected you will then be asked whether or not to use a designated
hitter.

Manually selecting teams is described below in "Miscellaneous Info".

See "Miscellaneous Info" for information on watching/playing a game.

  Game->Play->Portion of Season

Click on this menu item to play a portion of a season.  If there is no season
currently established this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.
(Use Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.) If the client is
not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be de-sensitized and
unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the
NSB server program.)

Upon clicking on this menu item you will be asked for the number of days or
games in your season to play.  Playing 999 days in your season will ensure that
the entire season will be played.  If within the regular season this process
will always stop at the end of the regular season even when the number of
days/games being played is more than necessary.  To play out the entire
post-season this menu item may be selected again.

This process may take some time depending upon the number of days/games being
played.

  Game->Play->Game(s) in a Series

Click on this menu item to play a portion of a series.  If there is no series
currently established this menu item may be de-sensitized and unselectable.
(Use Administration->Establish a Series to establish a series.) If the client
is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be de-sensitized and
unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a host running the
NSB server program.)

Upon clicking on this menu item you will be asked for the number of games to
play in your series.  Playing 999 games will ensure that the entire series is
played.

  Game->Preferences

Click on this menu item to set some NSB preferences.  To change the value of
any preference (except Gameplay Speed) click on that particular preference.
Save the preferences in order to use the same settings in subsequent runnings
of NSB.

Preference explanations:

Show Starting Lineups Before Any Single Game
or
Do Not Show Starting Lineups Before Any Single Game

When a single game is played via one of these four menu items:
Game->Play->One Game Against Computer
Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Same Computer
Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Over Network
Game->Play->Watch One Game Computer vs Computer

after the lineup is set and before the game actually starts the starting
lineups for both teams will or will not be displayed depending upon the
setting of this preference.

Include User-Created Teams in Random Team-Selection Pools
or
Do Not Include User-Created Teams in Random Pools

Any time teams are randomly selected to play in a game, user-created teams may
or may not be included in the pool from which the teams are randomly selected
based upon the setting of this preference.  If user-created teams are not
included then only real-life teams will be included in the selection pool.

Play Sounds
or
Do Not Play Sounds

NSB will or will not produce sounds based upon the setting of this preference.
sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> must be installed for sound to be produced.

Speak Play-By-Play
or
Do Not Speak Play-By-Play

NSB will or will not speak the play-by-play while playing a game based upon the
setting of this preference.  espeak <http://espeak.sourceforge.net/> must be
installed for speech to function.

The Gameplay Speed must be set to 3 seconds or greater for speech to function.
Gameplay Speed may be set in Game->Preferences.  It may also be adjusted during
gameplay (see "Miscellaneous Info" below).

Show Player Pics During Gameplay
or
Do Not Show Player Pics During Gameplay

Profile pictures of the current pitcher and the current batter will or will not
be shown during gameplay based upon the setting of this preference.

The player pics will not display (even if they are turned on in preferences) if
gameplay speed is at the fastest setting (Seconds and Quarter-Seconds are both
set to 0) and there are no human managers.

It is possible to add your own Player Pics.  See the text file Notes2Users.

Show "This Day in Baseball" at Boot
or
Do Not Show "This Day in Baseball" at Boot

"This Day in Baseball" for today will or will not display when the GTK NSB
Client is executed based upon the setting of this preference.

"This Day in Baseball" may also be displayed via Xtras->This Day in Baseball.

Make Player Pics Moveable During Gameplay
or
Each New Player Pic During Gameplay Will Display in the Same Location

Profile pictures of the current pitcher and the current batter will or will not
be moveable during gameplay based upon the setting of this preference.

If the pictures are not moveable then each new pic will display in the same
location on the screen determined by NSB.  If the pics are moveable then they
may be moved via the mouse during gameplay.  After any pic is moved to a new
location all following pics will appear in that new location.

Ask to "assume all years" when "Include Year(s)" field is empty
or
Don't ask to "assume all years" when "Include Year(s)" field is empty

Certain menu items (i.e., Administration->Establish Season (auto-create, same
team/multiple years); Administration->Create, Edit, Rename or Delete Team;
Statistics->Real Life->Category Leaders; Xtras->Evaluate Team Seasons; and
Xtras->Evaluate Player Seasons) allow the user to enter "years to include" when
determining the output.  If the "years to include" entry is blank NSB will
assume all years.  An are-you-sure dialog will or will not appear based upon
the setting of this preference.

Gameplay Speed

The gameplay speed of games being played on the screen (as opposed to playing a
portion of a season or a portion of a series) may be set here.  The speed may
also be adjusted during gameplay (see "Miscellaneous Info" below).

The Gameplay Speed must be set for 3 seconds or greater for play-by-play speech
to function.  (See Speak Play-By-Play or Do Not Speak Play-By-Play above.)

The player pics will not display if gameplay speed is at the fastest setting
(Seconds and Quarter-Seconds are both set to 0) and there are no human
managers.  (See Show Player Pics During Gameplay or Do Not Show Player Pics
During Gameplay above.)

  Game->Quit

Click this menu item to quit the GTK NSB Client.

  Administration->Establish Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Upon selecting this menu item, first
choose to set up the season by hand or automatically.  If you would like
complete control click on By Hand and then click OK.  Otherwise click Auto
Set-Up.  Lifetime statistics for players are accumulated in seasonal play.
Lifetime statistics are NOT accumulated for user-created teams.  There can be
only one season or one series at one time, not both.  (See
Administration->Establish a Series.)

If creating by hand the next dialog takes you through the process.  Choose how
to establish the Designated Hitter.  Choose the Number of Wild Card Teams in
the post-season.  Choose the maximum number of games in each post-season round.
Choose each team to compete in the season.  In the upper-half scrollable area
of the dialog click on the +/- to the left of each year to expand/compact that
year.  When expanded, all the teams for that year will be shown.  Click on the
appropriate box next to each team to place that team in the AL-East,
AL-Central, AL-West, NL-East, NL-Central or NL-West.  Each individual team can
be added to the season only one time, however teams may be mixed and matched
from various years including User-Created teams.  There is a maximum of 50
teams in any one division, and a maximum of 100 teams in the entire season.

At any time click on Show Season Creation Status to display the current status
of the season set-up.

After completing the set-up click OK.

If automatically creating a season then all the possible options will be shown.
There are three general themes to auto-setup a league:  By Real Life Year, Same
Team, Multiple Years, or Random.  Select one of these general themes on the
left-hand side of the dialog.

If choosing By Real Life Year then choose which year you would like on the
right.  After that click OK.

If choosing Same Team, Multiple Years then choose the team you would like.  In
this case one team from each year of the team's existence will be included in
the season.  All the teams (50 maximum) will be placed in the same division in
one league.  You may also choose to include and/or exclude certain years.  (See
"Miscellaneous Info" below for an explanation on including and excluding
years.)  Also, for this general theme you may choose whether or not to use a
Designated Hitter, the number of wild card teams, and the maximum number of
games to play in each round of the post-season.  (The maximum number of
post-season rounds is two for this general theme.)  After making all the
choices click OK.

As an example for using this general theme, say you want to play all the Boston
Red Sox teams from every year in order to find the best team.  The Boston Red
Sox span the years 1908 through present day making for 108 teams (through
2015).  Since the most teams that can be included in any one setup is 50,
multiple seasons would need to be played.  So, play one season including the
Boston Red Sox from years 1908 through 1942, another season including the
Boston Red Sox from years 1943 through 1978, and a third season playing the
Boston Red Sox from years 1979 through 2015.  Then play a fourth season with,
say, the top five Boston Red Sox teams from each of the first three seasons.

If choosing Random you may choose to randomize or specify various factors in
the season shown on the right side of the dialog.  After making the choices
click OK.

  Administration->Establish a Series

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Choose this menu item to set up a series
between two teams.  Lifetime statistics for players are NOT accumulated in
series play.  There is no post-season play in a series.  There can be only one
season or one series at one time, not both.  (See
Administration->Establish Season.)

Upon choosing this menu item the set-up dialog will display.  Choose to select
the two teams randomly or manually.

If you choose to manually select the teams the process is described below in
"Miscellaneous Info".  The same team may play itself in a series.

Choose the Series Length (1 to 999 maximum games).  Choose whether or not to
use the Designated Hitter.

After completing the set-up click OK.

  Administration->Injury Report

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to show an injury
report for players in either the current on-going season or the current
on-going series.

  Administration->Season Autoplay->Set-up

Use this menu item to set up season autoplay.  Autoplay may be executed via
Administration->Season Autoplay->Execute Once Now or from the command line (see
"Miscellaneous Info" below).  Autoplay allows you to play games in a current
on-going season non-interactively.  The results of running autoplay will be
sent in the form of an email.

Upon selecting this menu item a dialog will appear allowing you to select
various reports/statistics to be sent when executing autoplay.  After making
your selections click SAVE so the settings may be used in subsequent runnings
of autoplay either via Administration->Season Autoplay->Execute Once Now or via
the command line.

  Administration->Season Autoplay->Activation

Use this menu item to activate autoplay.  Autoplay must be activated whether
executing it via Administration->Season Autoplay->Execute Once Now or via the
command line.

After clicking on this menu item click on ACTIVATE AutoPlay to activate it or
SUSPEND AutoPlay to suspend it.

  Administration->Season Autoplay->Execute Once Now

Use this menu item to execute season autoplay one time.  Autoplay will play one
day's worth of games in a current on-going season.  If autoplay is not
activated (see Administration->Season Autoplay->Activation) then an error will
occur and notification will be sent in the form of an email.  If the client is
not currently connected to the correct NSB server then an error will occur.
However, autoplay may be executed from the command line without the client
being connected to the correct NSB server (see "Miscellaneous Info" below).

The results of autoplay will be sent in the form of an email.

  Administration->Users on Connected Server

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to show all users who
have accounts on the currently connected NSB server.  The users shown may or
may not be currently logged into the NSB server.

  Administration->Create, Edit, Rename or Delete Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to create your own
team from a variety of real life player seasons.  You may also edit, rename, or
delete a team which has already been created.  First choose "by hand" (and
click Go) or "auto create".  If you want to perform actions to any teams
already created then choose "by hand".

If choosing "by hand" you may create, edit, rename, or delete a team.  To
delete a team already created click on Delete Team and then enter the name of
the team to delete and click OK.  If the team which was entered does not exist
you will be presented with a list of teams which do exist.  To rename a team
click Rename Team and then enter the current name of the team and the new name
of the team.  If the current team name which was entered does not exist you
will be presented with a list of teams which do exist.

To create a new team you must (1) enter a name for the team and (2) select all
the players to include on the team.  In order to select a player:  click on the
+/- to the left of each year to expand/compact that year.  When expanded, all
the teams for that year will be shown.  Click on a team name to load its roster
into the players and pitchers lists at the bottom of the dialog.  Now click on
a player to add him to the team near the top-right of the dialog.  A player may
be removed from the team by clicking on (highlighting) his name in the team's
list and then clicking Remove.  At any time click on Check Team.  The ensuing
messages will alert you if your team is lacking in any way.  After finished
creating the team click on Save Team to save it.  If the team is totally
invalid it will not be able to be saved.  If the team is just lacking in some
way it will still be able to be saved.

To edit a team which already exists click Load Team and enter the name of the
team.  If the name which was entered does not exist you will be presented with
a list of teams which do exist, otherwise the team you entered will be loaded
and the roster will be shown near the top-right of the dialog.  After loading,
the team may be edited as described above.

If choosing "auto create" a team may be created automatically based upon
various factors.  Enter a team name.  Determine the formulas to use to select
the position players, the starting pitchers, and the relief pitchers.  (See
"Miscellaneous Info" below for a discussion on formulas.)  You may choose
whether or not to allow the same player from different years be used.  You may
choose to allow only 1 or multiple closer-type pitchers.  You may elect to
limit the team to players from only one team (across multiple years) or all
teams.  (For example, you may want to create an all-time Boston Red Sox team.)
You can elect what to do with real life statistics which are not available.
You may enter a minimum requirement for choosing position players, starting
pitchers, and relief pitchers.  And you may include and exclude specific years
from which to draw players.  (See "Miscellaneous Info" below for notes on
including and excluding years.)  After making all the choices click Go.

When a team is auto-created the selection process will include at least 1
closer, 6 starting pitchers, 4 relief pitchers, and 14 position players.  Each
position will be covered by at least two players.  Taking these requirements
into consideration it's likely that the 25 very best players (according to the
supplied formulas) will NOT be chosen.  After a team is auto-created and saved,
players may be removed and added to the roster (see above).

  Administration->Some Good Individual Seasons

Click on this menu item to show a list of very good seasons by players at the
different positions.  This list may come in handy when creating your own team
(see Administration->Create, Edit, Rename or Delete Team).

  Administration->Change My NSBID on Connected Server

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to change the
NSBID you are using on the NSB server to which you are currently connected.

  Administration->Delete My NSBID on Connected Server

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to delete the
NSBID you are using on the NSB server to which you are currently connected.

  Statistics->Current Season->Standings

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the standings for the current on-going season.

  Statistics->Current Season->Category Leaders->Regular Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the leaders in various statistic categories for the current
on-going regular season.  There are many hitting, pitching and fielding
categories from which to select.  Click on the appropriate button to see the
associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->Current Season->Category Leaders->Post-Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the leaders in various statistic categories for the post-season for
the current on-going season.  There are many hitting, pitching and fielding
categories from which to select.  Click on the appropriate button to see the
associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->Current Season->By Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the statistics for an entire team for the current on-going season.
Upon clicking on this menu item you will be presented with a list of teams in
the current season.  Click on a team name to see the stats.  If the regular
season has completed then included in the team list will be selections for
those teams in the post-season.  Any post-season teams will have their team
names suffixed with "-PS" (without the quotes).

  Statistics->Current Season->Team Totals->Regular Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the total statistics for all the teams in the current on-going
regular season.

  Statistics->Current Season->Team Totals->Post-Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the total statistics for all the teams in the post-season of the
current on-going season/league.

  Statistics->Current Season->Awards->Most Valuable Player

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the ranking list for Most Valuable Player for the current season.
The regular season must have completed for this menu item to function.  The
ranking score is calculated based upon the formula:  

(TB + SB + BB + HBP - CS) / (AB - H + CS + GIDP)
plus:
.050 points for playing on a playoff team
.025 points for playing an up-the-middle position (C, SS, 2B, CF)

See Help->Abbreviations for an explanation of the various abbreviations.

In order to qualify for the MVP there is a minimum requirement which is the
same as qualifying for the batting title (see "Miscellaneous Info" below).

  Statistics->Current Season->Awards->Cy Young

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the ranking list for the Cy Young Award for the current season.
The regular season must have completed for this menu item to function.  The
ranking score is calculated based upon the formula:  

((5 * IP / 9) - ER) + (SO / 12) + (SV * 2.5) + SHO + ((W * 6) - (L * 2)) + VB
VB: Victory Bonus - 12-point bonus awarded for playing on a playoff team

See Help->Abbreviations for an explanation of the various abbreviations.

In order to qualify for the Cy Young there is a minimum requirement which is
the same as qualifying for the ERA title (see "Miscellaneous Info" below).

  Statistics->Current Season->Awards->Gold Glove

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the winners of the Gold Glove Awards at each position for the
current season.  The regular season must have completed for this menu item to
function.

Gold Glove winners at each position is simply the highest fielding percentage
among players who meet the minimum playing-time requirements.

The minimum playing-time requirement is:
pitchers, IP >= G team played
catchers, G >= G team played / 2
all other positions, G (at the position in question) >= G team played * 2 / 3

See Help->Abbreviations for an explanation of the various abbreviations.

  Statistics->Current Season->Awards->Silver Slugger

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
season then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish Season to establish a season.)  Click on this menu
item to see the winners of the Silver Slugger Awards at each position for the
current season.  The regular season must have completed for this menu item to
function.  The winners are calculated based upon the formula:

(TB + SB + BB + HBP - CS) / (AB - H + CS + GIDP)

There is also a minimum playing-time requirement for players to qualify for the
Silver Slugger Award.

The minimum playing-time requirement is:
pitchers, IP >= G team played
catchers, G >= G team played / 2
all other positions, G (at the position in question) >= G team played * 2 / 3

See Help->Abbreviations for an explanation of the various abbreviations.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Regular Season Records->Just Your Seasons->
    Game Records

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
single-game leaders in various statistic categories for all seasons that you
have played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many hitting,
pitching and fielding categories from which to select.  Click on the
appropriate button to see the associated top-25 list.  Some non-applicable
buttons will be de-sensitized and unselectable.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Regular Season Records->Just Your Seasons->
    Season Records

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
single-season leaders in various statistic categories for all seasons that you
have played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many hitting,
pitching and fielding categories from which to select.  Click on the
appropriate button to see the associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Regular Season Records->
    All Seasons for All Users->Game Records

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
single-game leaders in various statistic categories for all seasons that all
users have played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many
hitting, pitching and fielding categories from which to select.  Click on the
appropriate button to see the associated top-25 list.  Some non-applicable
buttons will be de-sensitized and unselectable.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Regular Season Records->
    All Seasons for All Users->Season Records

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
single-season leaders in various statistic categories for all seasons that all
users have played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many
hitting, pitching and ielding categories from which to select.  Click on the
appropriate button to see the associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Lifetime Leaders->Regular Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
lifetime leaders in various statistic categories for all seasons that you have
played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many hitting, pitching
and fielding categories from which to select.  Click on the appropriate button
to see the associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->Lifetime Leaders->Post-Season

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
lifetime leaders in various statistic categories for all post-seasons that you
have played on the currently connected NSB server.  There are many hitting,
pitching and fielding categories from which to select.  Click on the
appropriate button to see the associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->All NSB Seasons->By Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the total
statistics for an entire team for all seasons that you have played on the
currently connected NSB server.  Upon clicking on this menu item you will be
presented with a list of teams.  Click on a team name to see the stats for that
team.  Any post-season teams will have their team names suffixed with "-PS"
(without the quotes).

  Statistics->Real Life->Season Results

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the final
standings and post-season results for any real-life season (1901 - current).
After clicking on this menu item select a year and then click Get Results.

  Statistics->Real Life->Category Leaders

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
leaders in various statistic categories for Real Life players.  There are many
hitting, pitching and fielding categories from which to select.  Certain years
may be included and/or excluded.  (See "Miscellaneous Info" below for an
explanation on including and excluding years.)  Click on the appropriate button
to see the associated top-25 list.

  Statistics->Real Life->By Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
statistics for an entire Real Life team in any year from 1901 through the
current year.  Upon clicking on this menu item you will be presented with a
scrollable list of years.  Click on the +/- to the left of each year to
expand/compact that year.  When expanded, all the teams for that year will be
shown.  Click on a team name to see the stats for that team.  NOTE - These
stats do not include players who may have played in real life but are not
included in these NSB rosters.  Each team's combined wins and losses in the
pitching stats may not equal the number of games the team played during the 
regular season.

  Statistics->Real Life->Team Totals

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the total
statistics for all the Real Life teams in any year from 1901 through the
current year.  After clicking on this menu item select the year and then click
on Get Team Totals.  NOTE - These stats do not include players who may have
played in real life but are not included in these NSB rosters.  Each team's
combined wins and losses in the pitching stats may not equal the number of
games the team played during the regular season.

  Statistics->Real Life->By Player

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see all Real
Life statistics for a particular player.  After clicking on this menu item
enter the player's name (first name first) and click OK.  The player's name
must match exactly to how the name is recorded by NSB.  Case doesn't matter.
NOTE - These stats (including totals) do not include any years where the player
may not have played enough games in real life to be included on an NSB roster
for that year.

  Statistics->Real Life->Notable Accomplishments

Click on this menu item to view a list of various notable accomplishments by
Real Life players from 1901 through the current year.

  Statistics->Real Life->Awards->Most Valuable Player

Click on this menu item to view a list of all the Real Life Most Valuable
Player award winners since the award's inception.

  Statistics->Real Life->Awards->Cy Young

Click on this menu item to view a list of all the Real Life Cy Young award
winners since the award's inception.

  Statistics->Real Life->Awards->Gold Glove

Click on this menu item to view a list of all the Real Life Gold Glove award
winners since the award's inception.

  Statistics->Real Life->Awards->Silver Slugger

Click on this menu item to view a list of all the Real Life Silver Slugger
award winners since the award's inception.

  Statistics->Real Life->Awards->Rookie of the Year

Click on this menu item to view a list of all the Real Life Rookie of the Year
award winners since the award's inception.

  Statistics->User-Created Teams->By Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the
statistics for an entire user-created team.  Upon clicking on this menu item
you will be presented with a scrollable list of teams.  Click on the +/- to the
left of User-Created to expand/compact the group.  When expanded, all the
user-created teams will be shown.  Click on a team name to see the stats for 
that team.

  Statistics->User-Created Teams->Team Totals

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Click on this menu item to see the total
statistics for all the user-created teams.  Upon clicking on this menu item the
team totals will be shown.

  Statistics->Current Series->Series Status

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
series then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish a Series to establish a series.)  Click on this menu
item to see the status of the current on-going series.  Note - lifetime
statistics are not accumulated during series play.

  Statistics->Current Series->Category Leaders

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
series then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish a Series to establish a series.)  Click on this menu
item to see the leaders in various statistic categories for the current
on-going series.  There are many hitting, pitching and fielding categories from
which to select.  Click on the appropriate button to see the associated top-25
list.

  Statistics->Current Series->By Team

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
series then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish a Series to establish a series.)  Click on this menu
item to see the statistics for an entire team in the current on-going series.
Upon clicking on this menu item you will be presented with the teams in the
current series.  Click on the +/- to the left of Current Series to
expand/compact the group.  When expanded, the teams in the series will be
shown.  Click on a team name to see the stats for that team.

  Statistics->Current Series->Team Totals

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  If there is not a current on-going
series then this menu item will be de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use
Administration->Establish a Series to establish a series.)  Click on this menu
item to see the total statistics for the teams in the current on-going series.

  Waiting Pool->Who is Waiting

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to show a list of
users waiting to be challenged to play a game over a network.  (See
"Miscellaneous Info" below for an explanation of playing a game over a
network.)

  Waiting Pool->Add Name

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to add your name (NSB
ID) to the list of users waiting to be challenged to play a game over a
network.  (See "Miscellaneous Info" below for an explanation of playing a game
over a network.)  Quitting NSB (see Game->Quit) will remove your name (NSB ID)
from the pool.

  Waiting Pool->Remove Name

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to remove your name
(NSB ID) from the list of users waiting to be challenged to play a game over a
network.  (See "Miscellaneous Info" below for an explanation of playing a game
over a network.)  Quitting NSB (see Game->Quit) will also remove your name (NSB
ID) from the pool.

  Waiting Pool->Request to Play

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to challenge another
user to a game played over a network.  Upon selecting this menu item you will
be asked to enter the NSB ID of the user to be challenged (the NSB ID must be
entered exactly including case).  Use Waiting Pool->Who is Waiting to see a
list of users waiting for a challenge.  (See "Miscellaneous Info" below for an
explanation of playing a game over a network.)

  Xtras->Play "Take Me Out to the Ballgame"

Click on this menu item to play a pleasant rendition of "Take Me Out to the
Ballgame".  NSB must be set to produce sound for this menu item to function
(see Game->Preferences).  Also, sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> must be
installed for sound to be produced.

  Xtras->Play Abbott & Costello's "Who's on First?"

Click on this menu item to play Abbott & Costello's "Who's on First?".  NSB
must be set to produce sound for this menu item to function (see
Game->Preferences).  Also, sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> must be installed
for sound to be produced.

  Xtras->Play Jackie Gleason's "Casey at the Bat"

Click on this menu item to play Jackie Gleason's "Casey at the Bat".  NSB must
be set to produce sound for this menu item to function (see Game->Preferences).
Also, sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> must be installed for sound to be
produced.

  Xtras->Play John Fogerty's "Centerfield"

Click on this menu item to play John Fogerty's "Centerfield".  NSB must be set
to produce sound for this menu item to function (see Game->Preferences).  Also,
sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> must be installed for sound to be produced.

  Xtras->This Day in Baseball

Click on this menu item to view a list of Real Life baseball-related events
which occurred on a particular date (month and day) from 1901 through the
current year.  After clicking on this menu item enter a month and day and click
Get This Day in Baseball.  A list may also be auto-output upon execution of
NSB.  In this case the month and day used is the month and day NSB is executed.
See Game->Preferences.

  Extras->Evaluate Team Seasons

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to output a ranking
list of teams based upon the combination of six factors:  regular season
winning percentage, post-season winning percentage, regular season run
differential, runs scored above league average, number of games finishing above
the second place team in the regular season, and post-season run differential
(optionally taking into account the number of post-season games played).  Upon
selecting this menu item a dialog will appear allowing values to be set for
each of these factors.  The values for each factor represent a percentage
effect on the final result.  The total of the values for the five factors must
be 100.  Additionally, particular years may be included and excluded.  (See
"Miscellaneous Info" below for an explanation on including and excluding
years.)

After all the values are entered click Go.

  Xtras->Evaluate Player Seasons

If the client is not connected to a NSB server then this menu item will be
de-sensitized and unselectable.  (Use Game->Connect to a Server to connect to a
host running the NSB server program.)  Use this menu item to display a rating
list of individual player seasons (offensive or pitching) based upon a
user-created formula.  After clicking this menu item a dialog of various
factors and settings will show.  Enter a formula to use if the standard
supplied formulas are not what is wanted.  View a list of acceptable acronyms
by clicking Valid Formula Characters.  Validate the formula by clicking
Validate Formula.  A formula may be saved by clicking Save Formula and a
formula may be loaded by clicking Load Formula.

Certain statistics are not always available.  Select what to do with those
stats which are not available.

There are times when 0 may be a divisor in a formula.  Select what to do when
that happens.

Determine the length of the list (1 - 500).

Select whether the list should be highest to lowest or lowest to highest.

Determine the minimum requirements which a player must meet in order to qualify
for the list.  If the minimum requirements is empty then all players qualify.

Choose to include and/or exclude certain years.  (See "Miscellaneous Info"
below for an explanation on including and excluding years.) 

After making all the selections click on Evaluate Offensive Seasons for offense
or Evaluate Pitching Seasons for pitching.

  Help->Help

Click on this menu item to show this documentation.

  Help->Abbreviations

Click on this menu item to show a list of abbreviations used throughout NSB
along with a decription of each abbreviation.

  Help->About GTK Client for NSB

Click on this menu item to show a short description of NSB.


                               Miscellaneous Info

The audio portions depend upon sox <http://sox.sourceforge.net/> being
installed.

The play-by-play speech depends upon espeak <http://espeak.sourceforge.net/>
being installed.  Gameplay speed must be set for 3 seconds or greater for
speech to function.  Gameplay speed may be set/changed in Game->Preferences
and/or during actual gameplay.

There can be only one season or one series at one time, not both.

Lifetime statistics are accumulated in seasonal play only.  Lifetime statistics
are NOT accumulated for user-created teams.

User-created teams may or may not be included as candidates when selecting
teams randomly under Game->Play (see Game->Preferences).

  Include Year(s) and Exclude Year(s)

Certain menu items (i.e., Administration->Establish Season (auto-create, same 
team/multiple years); Administration->Create, Edit, Rename or Delete Team;
Statistics->Real Life->Category Leaders; Xtras->Evaluate Team Seasons; and
Xtras->Evaluate Player Seasons) allow single years or spans of years to be
input as part of the process.  These areas are labeled "Exclude Year(s)" and
"Include Year(s)".  Enter years separated by either a space or a dash/hyphen.
A dash/hyphen indicates to use the entire span of years.  For example, entering
"1910 1920" (without the quotes) will use the years 1910 and 1920.  Entering
"1910-1920" (without the quotes) will use years 1910 through 1920 inclusive.
In another example, in the Include Year(s) box you might enter "1910-1930"
(without the quotes) and in the Exclude Year(s) box you might enter
"1915 1922-1925" (without the quotes).  In this case NSB will use years 1910
through 1914, 1916 through 1921, and 1926 through 1930.

  Watching/Playing a Game

The gameplay speed may be sped up or slowed down while the game is in progress.
When the game begins the gameplay speed is based upon the user preferences (see
Game->Preferences).  Clicking on the "Speed Up Game" or "Slow Down Game"
buttons will decrease or increase gameplay actions by about 1/4 of a second per
click.  The current time between gameplay actions is shown at the top of the
gameplay dialog.

While the game is being played, player pics will display for the pitcher and for
each batter depending upon whether this feature is turned on or off in
Game->Preferences.  The player pics will not display (even if they are turned
on in preferences) if gameplay speed is at the fastest setting and there are no
human managers.

After the game is completed the entire play-by-play may be reviewed in the
scrollable window in the bottom half of the gameplay dialog.  The entire
play-by-play may be printed by clicking on Print Play-By-Play.  A boxscore may
be displayed by clicking on Boxscore.  Once the gameplay dialog is dismissed
the boxscore will no longer be viewable.

  Managing a Team, Making Gameplay Decisions

A team may be managed by selecting one of the following menu items:
Game->Play->One Game Against Computer
Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Same Computer
Game->Play->One Game Against Human->Over Network

When managing a team there are managerial decisions you may make with each new
batter.  All the possibilities are presented in the form of a dialog.  Those
decisions which are not warranted because of the current status of the gameplay
will be de-sensitized and unselectable.

Offensive (at bat) Choices:
Swing Away
Hit & Run
Sacrifice Bunt
Squeeze Play
Steal Second
Steal Third
Steal Home
Steal Second & Third
Steal Second & Home
Steal Third & Home
Steal Second, Third & Home
See Lineup
Computer Takes Over

A Hit & Run is normally used when there is a runner on first base with less
than two outs and you want to avoid a double play.  Also, the runner has a
better chance of advancing an extra base when there is a base hit.  However,
if the batter does not make contact with the ball the baserunner has a
chance of being "hung up" on the basepaths.

A Squeeze Play is when the batter bunts with a runner on third base with less
than two outs.  This is an attempt to score the runner on third base by giving
up an out.

A Sacrifice Bunt is used when there are base runners on second and/or first
with less than two outs.  This is an attempt to advance the base runner(s) by
giving up an out.

Use See Lineup to insert a pinch hitter or pinch runner.

Defensive (in the field) Settings/Choices:
Infield In at Corners
Entire Infield In
Hold Runner on First
Outfield In
Guard the First Base Line
Guard the Third Base Line
Pitch to Batter
Intentionally Walk Batter
Pitchout
Pickoff Attempt at First
Pickoff Attempt at Second
Pickoff Attempt at Third
See Lineup
Computer Takes Over

Use the first six settings to position the defensive players on the field.

If the infield is in with less than two outs there is a better chance of
stopping a bunt attempt, and stopping a runner on third from scoring on a
ground ball.  However, with the infield in there is a better chance of the
batter getting a base hit.

Holding a runner on first base lessens the chance of a successful steal of
second base.  Also, there cannot be a pickoff attempt at first base if the
runner is not being held on.  If holding a runner on first base there is a
slightly better chance of the batter getting a base hit.

The Outfield In is normally used with less than two outs and any long out by
the batter will win the game (sacrifice fly) in walk-off fashion.

Guarding a base line lessens the chance of the batter getting an extra-base
hit but increases the chance of the batter getting a single.  This defensive
set is usually used in the late innings of a close game.

A Pitchout will affect the action if the offense chooses to attempt a steal,
to hit & run, or to bunt (squeeze play or sacrifice).  With each pitchout to
the same batter his chance of walking will increase significantly.

Use See Lineup to change pitchers or to change any other player on the field.

  Setting the Lineup

Clicking on a player in the roster (top half of the display) will place that
player into the lineup (bottom half of the display) into whichever slot is
checkmarked.  If no slot is checkmarked then the player will be placed into the
first open slot if an open slot exists.  If a second lineup slot is checkmarked
then the two checkmarked lineup slots will be exchanged.  Clicking (either left
or right mouse button) on the position marker will rotate through the
positions.  Clicking on a pitcher in the roster (defined as a player who
appeared as the pitcher more than half his total games) will auto-place that
pitcher either into slot nine in the batting order or, if using a DH, the
Starting Pitcher slot.  If the game is a season game then any players who are
currently injured will be unselectable in the roster.  Any players playing out
of position (any position they did not play in real life that year) will make
many more errors than normal.

  Statistics->All Seasons->Regular Season Records

These do not include any records which may have been broken or set during the
currently running season (if there is one).  Records are updated after the
regular season and post-season both complete.

  Statistics->Current Season->By Team
  Statistics->All Seasons->By Team
  Statistics->User-Created Teams->By Team

Statistics for teams which have participated in post-season play are identified
by the string "-PS" at the end of the file name (year and team name, or
user-created team name).

  Playing a Game Over a Network

In order to play a network game one human should connect to an NSB server and
then click on Waiting Pool->Add Name to add their NSBID to the pool of IDs
waiting for a challenge.  The other human should connect to the same NSB server
and click on Waiting Pool->Request to Play and in the resulting dialog enter
the NSBID of the human he/she wants to play.  Both humans should follow the
ensuing prompts.  The challengee in a network game (the human whose NSBID was
in the waiting pool) always selects which teams will be playing and always
manages the home team.

  Season Autoplay Non-Interactively

If a season is currently established (see Administration->Establish Season)
league/season games may be played non-interactively either via the command line
or via cron.

Before this can be accomplished the league/season must still be established via
running an interactive session of the GTK NSB Client and selecting
Administration->Establish Season.  Also, autoplay must first be set up via
Administration->Season Autoplay->Set-up and autoplay must be activated via
Administration->Season Autoplay->Activation.

This gives the user the ability to play league/season games in a
non-interactive way from the command line.  Also, this offers the ability to
auto-play league games on a timed basis (daily, hourly, etc).  Each running
plays 1 day's worth of games in your league/season.  The results of each
running will be sent to the user in the form of an email.  The contents of the
email is controlled by running an interactive session of the GTK NSB Client and
setting the options via Administration->Season Autoplay->Set-up.

The command line format is:
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY nsbid nsbserver

All parameters must be present.  "nsbserver" = the name of the host to which to
connect ("localhost" without the quotes is acceptable).  "nsbid" = your NSB ID
on the NSB server to which you are connecting (case sensitive).

Note - if you run the GTK NSB Client non-interactively from cron you must su to
your login as part of the cron entry.

Examples from the command line:
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Snake localhost
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Albert myhost.cox.net

Example line in cron:
0 3 * * *           su - mlake -c "gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Snake localhost"

  Manually Selecting Teams to Play a Game

When manually selecting the teams to play in a game you will be presented with
a scrollable list of years.  Click on the +/- to the left of each year to
expand/compact that year.  When expanded, all the teams available for that year
will be shown.  Click on a team name to select it.  The selected team will
always be placed in the visiting team area.  If a team is already in the
visiting team area that team will be moved to the home team area replacing any
team already in the home team area.  The visiting team and the home team may be
switched by clicking Exchange.  After selecting the teams select whether or not
to use a designated hitter.  After finishing click OK.

  Formulas

There are two functions where devising and using formulas are part of the
process.  Those two functions are auto-creating a team in
Administration->Create, Edit, Rename or Delete Team and
Xtras->Evaluate Player Seasons.  In both functions click on
Valid Formula Characters to view (and optionally print) all valid characters
and acronyms which may be used in formulas.  Formulas may be loaded, saved, and
validated (to a limited degree; formulas are fully validated at usage time).
Some acronyms are not valid in offensive formulas and some acronyms are not
valid in pitching formulas (see the viewable list).  Case is disregarded in the
formulas.  Each formula is evaluated from left to right.  Use parentheses to
enforce precedence.

  Qualification Minimum Requirements

In order to qualify for a batting title or the MVP Award a player's plate
appearances must be equal to or greater than 3.1 X the number of games his team
has played.

In order to qualify for an ERA title or the Cy Young Award a pitcher's IP must
be equal to or greater than the number of games his team has played.

