.\" gtknsbclient man page
.TH gtknsbclient 6 "April 15, 2018" "v0.9.9.6" "Players' Guide"
.SH "NAME"
gtknsbclient \-\- a GTK client for the NetStats Baseball (NSB) server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
gtknsbclient [host]
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B no options
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
gtknsbclient is a GTK client which communicates with the NSB baseball
server program.  The audio playback depends upon sox being installed.
Speech depends upon espeak being installed.

host = the IP address (or hostname) where the baseball server program
is running (DEFAULT = localhost)

gtknsbclient allows a user to play games of the following varieties:
.br
  play a game against the computer
.br
  play a game against another person on the same computer
.br
  play a network game against another person
.br
  watch a game computer versus computer
.br
  play a portion of a season or series

.br
There are also administrative type actions where a user can, for example:
.br
  establish a season or series automatically or by hand
.br
  see an injury report for your current season or series
.br
  see a list of users on this baseball server
.br
  create and/or edit your own team
.br
  rate real life teams based upon various criteria
.br
  rate individual real life player seasons based upon a user-created formula

.br
There is also a Waiting Pool function to facilitate playing a game against another person across a network.
.br

You may also view various types of statistics (among others):
.br
  season standings
.br
  series status and other series-related statistics
.br
  real life category leaders
.br
  real life season results
.br
  NSB category leaders (for regular season, post-season and lifetime)
.br
  NSB regular season records
.br
  by team
.br
  team totals
.br
  awards for real life or current season

.br
There is also a help function.
.br

If a user chooses to manage a team against the computer or another user
gtknsbclient will look for offensive and defensive commands with each new
batter (and other certain situations).  gtknsbclient will issue a prompt
in the form of a dialog looking for user input for each new situation.

Offensive Commands:

see lineups and make changes
.br
hit and run
.br
sacrifice bunt
.br
squeeze play
.br
steal second
.br
steal third
.br
steal home
.br
steal second and third
.br
steal second and home
.br
steal third and home
.br
steal second, third, and home
.br
normal, batter swings away
.br
switch to autogame (the user's management of this team ceases)
.br


Defensive Commands:

infield in at corners
.br
entire infield in
.br
hold runner on first base
.br
outfield in
.br
guard the first base line
.br
guard the third base line
.br
pitch to batter
.br
intentionally walk batter
.br
see lineups and make changes
.br
pitchout
.br
pickoff attempt at first base
.br
pickoff attempt at second base
.br
pickoff attempt at third base
.br
switch to autogame (the user's management of this team ceases)
.br


gtknsbclient may also be executed from the command line (i.e.,
run non-interactively) to play games in an established league.
(The league/season must be established via running an interactive
session of gtknsbclient and selecting Administration->Establish Season.)
This gives the user the ability to play games in his/her league/season from the
command line or from cron.  Each running plays 1 day's worth of games in
the league/season.  The results of each running will be sent to the user
in the form of an email.  The contents of the email is controlled by the
user via running an interactive session of gtknsbclient and selecting
the options via Administration->Season Autoplay->Set-up.

The command line format is:
.br
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY <nsbid> <nsbserver>

All parameters must be present.  "nsbserver" = the name of the host
to which to connect ("localhost" is acceptable).  "nsbid" = the user's NSB ID
on the NSB server to which the user is connecting (case sensitive).

Note - if you run the NSB client non-interactively from cron you must
su to your login as part of the cron entry.

Examples from command line:
.br
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Snake localhost
.br
gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Albert myhost.cox.net
.br

Example line in cron:
.br
0 3 * * *               su - mlake -c "gtknsbclient LEAGUEAUTOPLAY Snake localhost"


.br
.SH "AUTHOR"
Marshall Lake <mlake@mlake.net> or <nsb@mlake.net> (the latter is better)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nsbpoolmngr (6),
.BR nsbserver (6).
